---
author: Avi
categories:
- none
date: "2004-12-14T15:05:43Z"
guid: http://flaxfamily.com/?p=98
id: 98
title: Take 1 Photo
url: /post/take-1-photo/
---
In a fit of goodwill I just wrote a megilla of a reply to [this Janglo post](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/janglo/message/57284):

> &#8212; In janglo@yahoogroups.com, &#8220;Shalom and Margo Helman&#8221; <helman -s@b...> wrote:
  
> >
  
> > Has anyone had experience with Take 1 Photo or Photo Prisma. Are they good places to buy a digital camera? Are they reliable, do they give good service? Thanks.
  
> </helman>

My reply:

> We use [Take 1](http://take-1.co.il/) for all our chemical film developing and for digital printing. We been very happy with the results.
> 
> For our chemical film, we have them develop the film and scan the negatives onto a CD, so we pick up the negatives and a CD with the photos in digital format. This way we can pick and choose which photos to print, we have digital backups of the data, and our photos can be included in our iPhoto library on our Mac. The scans are very high quality and the color is great. They have two different prices for CDs, depending on whether you get high resolution scans or ultra-high resolution. We find the fee very reasonable. (10-12 to develop to negative, plus 22 for a high-res CD or 35 for an ultra-high res)
> 
> We also go to Take 1 whenever we have a large amount of photos to print (when we have less than 20 we usually print them ourselves on our Canon photo printer). We choose the photos we want to print, crop them to the proper dimensions (Take 1 can do this for you but we prefer to do it ourselves), copy them onto a memory card, and drop it off at the shop. As soon as a few hours later, depending on how busy they are, we can pick up our memory card (careful, sometimes they erase it after they print. So make sure you have copies!) and the prints. We have been thrilled with the print quality. Everything is sharp and clear, with great colors, whether the photo came straight from our 4MP digital camera or from a scanned negative. We really like their matte paper as well, it&#8217;s a very nice paper with a subtle grain. I believe 4&#215;6&#8243; prints are about 1 NIS each.
> 
> If you develop and print chemical film, I believe they charge 10-12 for developing, plus 1 NIS per print. There may be discounts for doubles, but we rarely print doubles so I&#8217;m not sure.
> 
> Bottom line, we&#8217;ve found their services to be fast, high-quality, and well worth the high-end-of-average price.
> 
> HTH!
  
> Avi 

Sheesh! I just go on and on and on&#8230; seriously though, we&#8217;ve been very happy with [Take 1](http://take-1.co.il/).