---
id: 387
title: Thoughts on Thanksgiving
date: 2006-11-22T15:05:06+00:00
author: Avi
layout: post
guid: http://aviflax.com/post/387/
permalink: /post/387/
categories:
  - none
---
My co-worker friends are all excited about Thanksgiving. But when they ask me what my plans are, I say &#8220;sleep.&#8221; The general response is one of surprise and a mild form of dissapointment. They&#8217;re excited, and they figured I&#8217;d share in that excitement; instead, I guess I&#8217;ve drizzled on their parade, at least a little.

I couldn&#8217;t help but think about this. Why is my attitude about Thanksgiving so different from theirs?

I think the answer lies in my background. I grew up as an Orthodox Jew in the Orthodox Jewish community of Baltimore, Maryland. Orthodox Judaism is a hyper-traditional form of the Jewish tradition; a product of modern history. For reasons found in un-modern history, one of the values of traditional Judaism was (is?) that the Jewish people should be, and are, seperate from &#8220;the nations&#8221; &#8211; other peoples. It&#8217;s interesting to think about possible origins for this value, and how it might have evolved and played out over the centuries. But this isn&#8217;t the time. For now, I&#8217;ll just observe that this value is alive and well in Orthodox Baltimore.

My father studied at Ner Israel, Baltimore&#8217;s Orthodox _yeshiva_, from the age of fifteen until around thirty, or roughly 1950 &#8211; 1965. He never celebrated Thanksgiving; and when my mother sometimes did, he expressed varying amounts of disinterest. I do believe he attended her dinners once or twice; but it certainly wasn&#8217;t his thing. I have vague memories of asking about Thanksgiving, and the answers I recieved from my father and from the teachers at my _yeshiva_ day school basically amounted to &#8220;why would we celebrate that? it&#8217;s not Jewish.&#8221; The implication was: it&#8217;s not ours, it&#8217;s theirs. Stay away. There was a sense of xenophobia, and of distaste. Why should a good Jew be interested in a _goyisha_ holiday?

Hence my indifference to Thanksgiving. While I don&#8217;t seem to have inherited a sense of actual distaste, and I consider the traditional value of seperation to be obsolete, I don&#8217;t get excited about this holiday. If I&#8217;m invited to a Thanksgiving dinner, I&#8217;ll go, and I&#8217;ll generally enjoy it. But this year, I was invited to a dinner in Baltimore; and I&#8217;m in New York. And I&#8217;m just not excited enough about it to drive for hours in unending traffic just to eat turkey with my family.

I&#8217;d rather sleep.

Happy Thanksgiving!